Pachinko Opdatering (#52)
MrLongbottom/P10-Article: sections/plate_notation.tex

\end{figure*}

\subsection{Pachinko Allocation}
In order to handle the hierarchical structure of the taxonomy metadata field, we use a hierarchical topic model, namely the \acrlong{pam} from \citet{li2006pachinko}.

> Pachinko allocation generalizes \gls{lda}, to be able to construct topic hiearchies based on any \gls{dag} structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pachinko allocation generalizes the \gls{lda}, by constructing topic hierarchies based on any \gls{dag} structure.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Pachinko allocation generalizes \gls{lda}, making it possible to construct topic hierarchies based on any \gls{dag} structure.
```

> \gls{pam} is a topic model focusing on finding topics of different abstraction level and modelling the connections between these topics. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\gls{pam} is a topic model focusing on finding topics of different abstraction levels and modeling the connections between these topics. 
```

> Each node in the \gls{dag} structure represents a topic in the pachinko allocation model. However, unlike \gls{lda} where topics are distributions over words, in \gls{pam} topics are multinomial distributions over words and/or other topics further down the hiarchy of the  \gls{dag} structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each node in the \gls{dag} structure represents a topic in the pachinko allocation model. 
However, unlike \gls{lda} where topics are distributions over words, in \gls{pam} topics are multinomial distributions over words and/or other topics further down the hierarchy of the  \gls{dag} structure.
```

An example of the dag structure used in this paper is shown in \autoref{fig:pachinko_dag}.

> In this paper we use a layered \gls{pam}, meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers with every node in each layer having an edge going to every node in the next layer further down the hiarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this paper, we use a layered \gls{pam}, meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers with every node in each layer is fully connected to every node in the next layer with the hierarchy.
```

Author: ```suggestion
In this paper, we use a layered \gls{pam} meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers with every node in each layer fully connected to every node in the next layer of the hierarchy.
```
```suggestion
In this paper we use a layered \gls{pam}, meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers with every node in each layer fully connected to every node in the next layer of the hierarchy.
```
ville mene kun et af disse to kommaer skal være der.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this paper, we use a layered \gls{pam} meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers, with every node in each layer fully connected to every node in the next layer of the hierarchy.
```

The first layer consists of only the root node, a topic which all documents are part of, and the bottom layer consisting of leaf nodes, which are the only nodes to contain distributions over words, and they have no other topics in their distribution.

> We replicate some layers of the structure from our taxonomy dataset in our \gls{dag} structure, having some nodes represent a topic based on this specific taxonomy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We replicate some layers, based on the structure from the taxonomy field within our dataset, in our \gls{dag} structure having some nodes represent a topic based on this specific taxonomy.
```

Author: ```suggestion
We replicate some layers in our \gls{dag} structure based on the structure from the taxonomy field within our dataset, having some nodes represent a topic based on a specific taxonomy.
```

> To make the algorithm construct the topics to be based on our taxonomies we will be introducing a novel locking mechanism to the gibbs sampler that will be used to run \gls{pam}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the algorithm construct the topics to be based on our taxonomies, we introduce a novel locking mechanism for the Gibbs sampler that is being used to run \gls{pam}.
```

Author: ```suggestion
To make the algorithm construct the topics to be based on our taxonomies, we introduce a novel locking mechanism for the Gibbs sampler which we use to run \gls{pam}.
```

This mechanism is discussed further in \autoref{subsec:mod_pachinko}.

We use a five-level pachinko tree structure, following the format presented by \cite{li2006pachinko}.

> The first layer is the root layer, which all words are a part of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first layer is the root layer.
```

The last layer is the word layer consisting of one node for each word in the vocabulary of our corpus.

> The second and third layers will be constructed based on the entries of first two positions in our taxonomy dataset, meaning there will be one node for each unique sub-taxonomy entry that is in the first or second postion in the taxonomy sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second and third layers will be constructed based on the entries of the first two positions in our taxonomy metadata, meaning there will be one node for each unique sub-taxonomy entry that is in the first or second position in the taxonomy sequence.
For example "STEDER", which is taken from "STEDER/Danmark/Aalborg.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The second and third layers will be constructed based on the entries of the first two positions in our taxonomy metadata, meaning there will be one node for each unique sub-taxonomy entry that is in the first or second position in the taxonomy sequence (e.g. "STEDER" and "Danmark", which is taken from "STEDER/Danmark/Aalborg", but not "Aalborg" since it is in the third position).
```

Reviewer 2: @MrLongbottom's sætning bliver måske lidt for lang, men kan godt lide de ekstra detaljer.

> We only use the first two layers for this, as the these are among the most informative, and because introducing even more layers would slow down the training exponentially, as the probability of all possible combinations of topics need to be sampled for every word during training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We only use the first two layers for this, as these are among the most informative, and because introducing even more layers would slow down the training exponentially, since the probability of all possible combinations of topics needs to be sampled for every word during training.
```

> The fourth layer consists of $K = 90$ 'blank' topics, as with the other models we present in this paper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fourth layer consists of $K = 90$ 'blank' topics, as with the other models, we present in this paper.
```

> This layer is added so that the model can construct its own topics based on the higher-level topics learned from our taxonomy data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This layer is added so that the model can construct its own topics based on the higher-level topics learned from our taxonomy metadata.
```

This \gls{dag} structure is visualized in \autoref{fig:pachinko_dag}.

The generative process for PAM is described as follows:

> First the multinomial distributions for each node in the \gls{dag} are sampled from dirichlet distributions based on $\alpha$ values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, the multinomial distributions for each node in the \gls{dag} are sampled from Dirichlet distributions based on $\alpha$ values.
```

While it is possible to use different $\alpha$ values for each layer, we found through experimentation using the same $\alpha$ value for all layers still provided good results.

> Similarly for the second to last layer, the multinomial distribution over words are sampled from a dirichlet distribution based on a single $\beta$ value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, for the second to last layer, the multinomial distribution over words is sampled from a Dirichlet distribution based on a single $\beta$ value.
```

After all topic distribution have been sampled, documents are created by sampling words in the following manner:
For each word, a chain of topics is sampled by sampling one topic from each layer of the structure, and finally, a word is chosen based on the last topic.
More specifically, for each topic $Z_{wl}$ starting with the root topic $Z_{w1}$, we sample a topic from the next layer $Z_{w(l+1)}$ from that node's topic distribution $\theta_l^{(d)}$ based on observed data from that document.
This generative process in also illustrated in the plate notation for our \gls{pam} in \autoref{fig:pachinko}.

We use Gibbs sampling for performing inference.

> For each word, a chain of topics is sampled by calculating the probability of all combination of topics and making a weighted sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each word, a chain of topics is sampled by calculating the probability of all combinations of topics and making a weighted sample.
```

\end{figure*}

\subsection{Pachinko Allocation}

> In order to handle the hierarchical structure of the taxonomy metadata field, we use a hierarchical topic model, namely the \acrlong{pam} from \citet{li2006pachinko}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to handle the hierarchical structure of the taxonomy metadata field, we use a hierarchical topic model, namely the \acrfull{pam} from \citet{li2006pachinko}.
```

Pachinko allocation generalizes \gls{lda}, to be able to construct topic hiearchies based on any \gls{dag} structure.
\gls{pam} is a topic model focusing on finding topics of different abstraction levels and modeling the connections between these topics. 

Each node in the \gls{dag} structure represents a topic in the pachinko allocation model. 

> However, unlike \gls{lda} where topics are distributions over words, in \gls{pam} topics are multinomial distributions over words and/or other topics further down the hierarchy of the  \gls{dag} structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, unlike \gls{lda} where topics are distributions over words, in \gls{pam} topics are multinomial distributions over words and/or other topics further down the hierarchy of the \gls{dag} structure.
```

> An example of the dag structure used in this paper is shown in \autoref{fig:pachinko_dag}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of the \gls{dag} structure used in this paper is shown in \autoref{fig:pachinko_dag}.
```

In this paper we use a layered \gls{pam}, meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers with every node in each layer having an edge going to every node in the next layer further down the hiarchy.

> The first layer consists of only the root node, a topic which all documents are part of, and the bottom layer consisting of leaf nodes, which are the only nodes to contain distributions over words, and they have no other topics in their distribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first layer consists of only the root node, a topic which all documents are part of, and the bottom layer consists of leaf nodes, which are the only nodes to contain distributions over words, and they have no other topics in their distribution.
```

We replicate some layers of the structure from our taxonomy dataset in our \gls{dag} structure, having some nodes represent a topic based on this specific taxonomy.
To make the algorithm construct the topics to be based on our taxonomies we will be introducing a novel locking mechanism to the gibbs sampler that will be used to run \gls{pam}.
This mechanism is discussed further in \autoref{subsec:mod_pachinko}.

> We use a five-level pachinko tree structure, following the format presented by \cite{li2006pachinko}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use a five-level pachinko tree structure, following the format presented by \citet{li2006pachinko}.
```

The first layer is the root layer, which all words are a part of.
The last layer is the word layer consisting of one node for each word in the vocabulary of our corpus.
The second and third layers will be constructed based on the entries of first two positions in our taxonomy dataset, meaning there will be one node for each unique sub-taxonomy entry that is in the first or second postion in the taxonomy sequence.
We only use the first two layers for this, as these are among the most informative, and because introducing even more layers would slow down the training exponentially, since the probability of all possible combinations of topics needs to be sampled for every word during training.
The fourth layer consists of $K = 90$ 'blank' topics, as with the other models we present in this paper.
This layer is added so that the model can construct its own topics based on the higher-level topics learned from our taxonomy metadata.
This \gls{dag} structure is visualized in \autoref{fig:pachinko_dag}.

> The generative process for PAM is described as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The generative process for \gls{pam} is described as follows:
```

First, the multinomial distributions for each node in the \gls{dag} are sampled from Dirichlet distributions based on $\alpha$ values.

> While it is possible to use different $\alpha$ values for each layer, we found through experimentation using the same $\alpha$ value for all layers still provided good results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While it is possible to use different $\alpha$ values for each layer, we found through experimentation that using the same $\alpha$ value for all layers still provided good results.
```

Similarly, for the second to last layer, the multinomial distribution over words is sampled from a Dirichlet distribution based on a single $\beta$ value.

> After all topic distribution have been sampled, documents are created by sampling words in the following manner:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After all topic distributions have been sampled, documents are created by sampling words in the following manner:
```

		\frac{n_{cw}^d + \beta_{w}}{n_{c} + \sum_{m} \beta_{m}} 
	\end{split}
\end{equation}
As in \citet{li2006pachinko} $Z_{w2}$, $Z_{w3}$, $Z_{w4}$ are topic assignments for the three middle layers of topics in our 5-layer Pachinko model.

> The root topic is not part of this equation since all words are part of it, so the probibility does not need to be calculated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root topic is not part of this equation since all words are part of it, so the probability does not need to be calculated.
```

$Z_{-w}$ is the word topic assignment, for all other words except the one that is being updated.
$n_x^d$ is the number of times topic $t_x$ occurs in document $d$ according to $Z_{-w}$. 
The $n_{xy}^d$ describes how many times topic $t_y$ is sampled from its parent $t_x$ within document $d$ according to $Z_{-w}$.
$n_x$ is the number of times topic $t_x$ occurs in the corpus according to $Z_{-w}$ and $n_{xw}$ is the number of times a word $w$ is in $t_x$ according to $Z_{-w}$.

\input{figures/dag_structure}

\input{figures/pachinko}

\subsubsection{Modification to Pachinko Allocation}\label{subsec:mod_pachinko}
Without modification, \gls{pam} will find topics with the same structure as our taxonomy, but the topics will not actually be based on the taxonomy.

> However, for our dataset only $25\%$ of the documents have an observed taxonomy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, for our dataset, only $25\%$ of the documents have an observed taxonomy.
```

Author: ```suggestion
However, only $25\%$ of the documents have an observed taxonomy in our dataset.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, only $25\%$ of the documents in our dataset have an observed taxonomy.
```

		\frac{n_{cw}^d + \beta_{w}}{n_{c} + \sum_{m} \beta_{m}} 
	\end{split}
\end{equation}

> As in \citet{li2006pachinko} $Z_{w2}$, $Z_{w3}$, $Z_{w4}$ are topic assignments for the three middle layers of topics in our 5-layer Pachinko model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As in \citet{li2006pachinko}, $Z_{w2}$, $Z_{w3}$, $Z_{w4}$ are topic assignments for the three middle layers of topics in our 5-layer Pachinko model.
```

The root topic is not part of this equation since all words are part of it, so the probability does not need to be calculated.
$Z_{-w}$ is the word topic assignment, for all other words except the one that is being updated.
$n_x^d$ is the number of times topic $t_x$ occurs in document $d$ according to $Z_{-w}$. 
The $n_{xy}^d$ describes how many times topic $t_y$ is sampled from its parent $t_x$ within document $d$ according to $Z_{-w}$.

> $n_x$ is the number of times topic $t_x$ occurs in the corpus according to $Z_{-w}$ and $n_{xw}$ is the number of times a word $w$ is in $t_x$ according to $Z_{-w}$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$n_x$ is the number of times topic $t_x$ occurs in the corpus according to $Z_{-w}$, and $n_{xw}$ is the number of times a word $w$ is in $t_x$ according to $Z_{-w}$.
```
